In this section, we are going to learn about
network automation.
We will start with preparing the lab. First we will learn how to download and install gns3.
Gns3 is network simulation tools, just like cisco packet tracer. But we have many more features in gns3.
In gns3, we are able to import linux virtual
machine to doing a network automation.
Okay let’s just start learning how to download and
install gns3. Open a browser and go to gns3.com.
Here we can just click free
download to download the gns3.
Here you can choose the operating system
that you use. In this case I use Mac OS.
To download gns3, we need to login or create
a free account first.
Don’t worry, this is totally free, you just need to create a free
account and then you are able to download gns3.
I already download the gns3, so I
will skip the step to download gns3.
To install the gns3, here we can see an
installation guide for each operating system.
Let’s check on windows first.
This is should be very easy,
we just need to next next next until finish.
Here the guide is very complete, we can see
the version of windows that supported by gns3,
minimum requirements, recommended
requirements, and others.
And then here we also have optimal requirements.
The miimum requirement is 4 gig ram,
recommended requirement is 16 gig ram,
and for optimal requirement is 32 gig ram. So
at least to learn about network automation,
I think we need to have 8 gig ram.
Okay, let’s see how we can
install gns3 on windows,
here we need to create a free
account to download gns3,
after that we can double click the installer
and then just next next next until finish.
Okay, so that is how we can
install gns3 in windows.
Let’s check how we can install gns3 on linux.
In linux, we can install gns3 from terminal.
So we can just copy and paste this command.
You can search the distro that you use
to see the command to install gns3.
Last, let’s see howe we
can install gns3 on mac os.
This is the installer that I have
downloaded before, just double click this,
here I just need to drag and drop
the installer to application.
Just it, this is how we can install
gns3 on mac os, very easy right?
Let’s open the gns3,
here we get a message that gns3 is downloaded
from internet, let’s just click open,
yes, we need to type our password, and
here we are. This is the display of gns3.
We can chose run appliances on my local computer,
and here we can check don’t show this message
again. Next, next, just next here, and finish.
Okay now we have done installing gns3 on
our laptop.
I think enough for this video,
in the next video, we are going to learn
how to import cisco router to gns3.
Thank you for watching and
see you on the next video.